# Part 158. Passenger facility charges (pfc's)
**80 min read**  
Source: [https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt14.3.158](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt14.3.158)

<div>

## Subpart A—General

### §158.1   Applicability.

This part applies to passenger facility charges (PFC's) as may be approved by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and imposed by a public agency that controls a commercial service airport. This part also describes the procedures for reducing funds to a large or medium hub airport that imposes a PFC.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2000-7402, 65 FR 34540, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.3   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part:

*Airport* means any area of land or water, including any heliport, that is used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas that are used or intended to be used for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.

*Airport capital plan* means a capital improvement program that lists airport-related planning, development or noise compatibility projects expected to be accomplished with anticipated available funds.

*Airport layout plan (ALP)* means a plan showing the existing and proposed airport facilities and boundaries in a form prescribed by the Administrator.

*Airport revenue* means revenue generated by a public airport (1) through any lease, rent, fee, PFC or other charge collected, directly or indirectly, in connection with any aeronautical activity conducted on an airport that it controls; or (2) In connection with any activity conducted on airport land acquired with Federal financial assistance, or with PFC revenue under this part, or conveyed to such public agency under the provisions of any Federal surplus property program or any provision enacted to authorize the conveyance of Federal property to a public agency for airport purposes.

*Air travel ticket* includes all documents, electronic records, boarding passes, and any other ticketing medium about a passenger's itinerary necessary to transport a passenger by air, including passenger manifests.

*Allowable cost* means the reasonable and necessary costs of carrying out an approved project including costs incurred prior to and subsequent to the approval to impose a PFC, and making payments for debt service on bonds and other indebtedness incurred to carry out such projects. Allowable costs include only those costs incurred on or after November 5, 1990. Costs of terminal development incurred after August 1, 1986, at an airport that did not have more than .25 percent of the total annual passenger boardings in the U.S. in the most recent calendar year for which data is available and at which total passenger boardings declined by at least 16 percent between calendar year 1989 and calendar year 1997 are allowable.

*Approved project* means a project for which the FAA has approved using PFC revenue under this part. The FAA may also approve specific projects contained in a single or multi-phased project or development described in an airport capital plan separately. This includes projects acknowledged by the FAA under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.30   PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.|§158.30]] of this part.

*Bond financing costs* means the costs of financing a bond and includes such costs as those associated with issuance, underwriting discount, original issue discount, capitalized interest, debt service reserve funds, initial credit enhancement costs, and initial trustee and paying agent fees.

*Charge effective date* means the date on which carriers are obliged to collect a PFC.

*Charge expiration date* means the date on which carriers are to cease to collect a PFC.

*Collecting carrier* means an issuing carrier or other carrier collecting a PFC, whether or not such carrier issues the air travel ticket.

*Collection* means the acceptance of payment of a PFC from a passenger.

*Commercial service airport* means a public airport that annually enplanes 2,500 or more passengers and receives scheduled passenger service of aircraft.

*Covered air carrier* means an air carrier that files for bankruptcy protection or has an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding started against it after December 12, 2003. An air carrier that is currently in compliance with PFC remittance requirements and has an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding commenced against it has 90 days from the date such proceeding was filed to obtain dismissal of the involuntary petition before becoming a covered air carrier. An air carrier ceases to be a covered air carrier when it emerges from bankruptcy protection.

*Covered airport* means a medium or large hub airport at which one or two air carriers control more than 50 percent of passenger boardings.

*Debt service* means payments for such items as principal and interest, sinking funds, call premiums, periodic credit enhancement fees, trustee and paying agent fees, coverage, and remarketing fees.

*Exclusive long-term lease or use agreement* means an exclusive lease or use agreement between a public agency and an air carrier or foreign air carrier with a term of 5 years or more.

*FAA Airports office* means a regional, district or field office of the Federal Aviation Administration that administers Federal airport-related matters.

*Financial need* means that a public agency cannot meet its operational or debt service obligations and does not have at least a 2-month capital reserve fund.

*Frequent flier award coupon* means a zero-fare award of air transportation that an air carrier or foreign air carrier provides to a passenger in exchange for accumulated travel mileage credits in a customer loyalty program, whether or not the term “frequent flier” is used in the definition of that program. The definition of “frequent flier award coupon” does not extend to redemption of accumulated credits for awards of additional or upgraded service on trips for which the passenger has paid a published fare, “two-for-the-price-of-one” and similar marketing programs, or to air transportation purchased for a passenger by other parties.

*Ground support equipment* means service and maintenance equipment used at an airport to support aeronautical operations and related activities. Baggage tugs, belt loaders, cargo loaders, forklifts, fuel trucks, lavatory trucks, and pushback tractors are among the types of vehicles that fit this definition.

*Implementation of an approved project* means: (1) With respect to construction, issuance to a contractor of notice to proceed or the start of physical construction; (2) with respect to nonconstruction projects other than property acquisition, commencement of work by a contractor or public agency to carry out the statement of work; or (3) with respect to property acquisition projects, commencement of title search, surveying, or appraisal for a significant portion of the property to be acquired.

*Issuing carrier* means any air carrier or foreign air carrier that issues an air travel ticket or whose imprinted ticket stock is used in issuing such ticket by an agent.

*Medium or large hub airport* means a commercial service airport that has more than 0.25 percent of the total number of passenger boardings at all such airports in the U.S. for the prior calendar year, as determined by the Administrator.

*Non-hub airport* means a commercial service airport (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 47102) that has less than 0.05 percent of the passenger boardings in the U.S. in the prior calendar year on an aircraft in service in air commerce.

*Nonrevenue passenger* means a passenger receiving air transportation from an air carrier or foreign air carrier for which remuneration is not received by the air carrier or foreign air carrier as defined under Department of Transportation Regulations or as otherwise determined by the Administrator. Air carrier employees or others receiving air transportation against whom token service charges are levied are considered nonrevenue passengers. Infants for whom a token fare is charged are also considered nonrevenue passengers.

*Notice of intent (to impose or use PFC revenue)* means a notice under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.30   PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.|§158.30]] from a public agency controlling a non-hub airport that it intends to impose a PFC and/or use PFC revenue. Except for §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]] through 30, “notice of intent” can be used interchangeably with “application.”

*One-way trip* means any trip that is not a round trip.

*Passenger enplaned* means a domestic, territorial or international revenue passenger enplaned in the States in scheduled or nonscheduled service on aircraft in intrastate, interstate, or foreign commerce.

*PFC* means a passenger facility charge covered by this part imposed by a public agency on passengers enplaned at a commercial service airport it controls.

*PFC administrative support costs* means the reasonable and necessary costs of developing a PFC application or amendment, issuing and maintaining the required PFC records, and performing the required audit of the public agency's PFC account. These costs may include reasonable monthly financial account charges and transaction fees.

*Project* means airport planning, airport land acquisition or development of a single project, a multi-phased development program, (including but not limited to development described in an airport capital plan) or a new airport for which PFC financing is sought or approved under this part.

*Public agency* means a State or any agency of one or more States; a municipality or other political subdivision of a State; an authority created by Federal, State or local law; a tax-supported organization; an Indian tribe or pueblo that controls a commercial service airport; or for the purposes of this part, a private sponsor of an airport approved to participate in the Pilot Program on Private Ownership of Airports.

*Round trip* means a trip on a complete air travel itinerary which terminates at the origin point.

*Significant business interest* means an air carrier or foreign air carrier that:

\(1\) Had no less than 1.0 percent of passenger boardings at that airport in the prior calendar year,

\(2\) Had at least 25,000 passenger boardings at the airport in that prior calendar year, or

\(3\) Provides scheduled service at that airport.

*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.

*Unliquidated PFC revenue* means revenue received by a public agency from collecting carriers but not yet used on approved projects.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34540, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14934, Mar. 23, 2005; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28847, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.5   Authority to impose PFC's.

Subject to the provisions of this part, the Administrator may grant authority to a public agency that controls a commercial service airport to impose a PFC of \$1, \$2, \$3, \$4, or \$4.50 on passengers enplaned at such an airport. No public agency may impose a PFC under this part unless authorized by the Administrator. No State or political subdivision or agency thereof that is not a public agency may impose a PFC covered by this part.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.7   Exclusivity of authority.

\(a\) A State, political subdivision of a State, or authority of a State or political subdivision that is not the eligible public agency may not tax, regulate, prohibit, or otherwise attempt to control in any manner the imposition or collection of a PFC or the use of PFC revenue.

\(b\) No contract or agreement between an air carrier or foreign air carrier and a public agency may impair the authority of such public agency to impose a PFC or use the PFC revenue in accordance with this part.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.9   Limitations.

\(a\) No public agency may impose a PFC on any passenger—

\(1\) For more than 2 boardings on a one-way trip or in each direction of a round trip;

\(2\) On any flight to an eligible point on an air carrier that receives essential air service compensation on that route. The Administrator makes available a list of carriers and eligible routes determined by the Department of Transportation for which PFC's may not be imposed under this section;

\(3\) Who is a nonrevenue passenger or obtained the ticket for air transportation with a frequent flier award coupon;

\(4\) On flights, including flight segments, between 2 or more points in Hawaii;

\(5\) In Alaska aboard an aircraft having a certificated seating capacity of fewer than 60 passengers; or

\(6\) Enplaning at an airport if the passenger did not pay for the air transportation that resulted in the enplanement due to Department of Defense charter arrangements and payments.

\(b\) No public agency may require a foreign airline that does not serve a point or points in the U.S. to collect a PFC from a passenger.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28847, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.11   Public agency request not to require collection of PFC's by a class of air carriers or foreign air carriers or for service to isolated communities.

\(a\) Subject to the requirements of this part, a public agency may request that collection of PFC's not be required for—

\(1\) Passengers enplaned by any class of air carrier or foreign air carrier if the number of passengers enplaned by the carriers in the class constitutes not more than one percent of the total number of passengers enplaned annually at the airport at which the fee is imposed; or

\(2\) Passengers enplaned on a flight to an airport—

\(i\) That has fewer than 2,500 passenger boardings each year and receives scheduled passenger service; or

\(ii\) In a community that has a population of less than 10,000 and is not connected by a land highway or vehicular way to the land-connected National Highway System within a State.

\(b\) The public agency may request this exclusion authority under paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section or both.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2000-7402, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.13   Use of PFC revenue.

PFC revenue, including any interest earned after such revenue has been remitted to a public agency, may be used only to finance the allowable costs of approved projects at any airport the public agency controls.

\(a\) *Total cost.* PFC revenue may be used to pay all or part of the allowable cost of an approved project.

\(b\) *PFC administrative support costs.* Public agencies may use PFC revenue to pay for allowable administrative support costs. Public agencies must submit these costs as a separate project in each PFC application.

\(c\) *Maximum cost for certain low-emission technology projects.* If a project involves a vehicle or ground support equipment using low emission technology eligible under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](b), the FAA will determine the maximum cost that may be financed by PFC revenue. The maximum cost for a new vehicle is the incremental amount between the purchase price of a new low emission vehicle and the purchase price of a standard emission vehicle, or the cost of converting a standard emission vehicle to a low emission vehicle.

\(d\) *Bond-associated debt service and financing costs.* (1) Public agencies may use PFC revenue to pay debt service and financing costs incurred for a bond issued to carry out approved projects.

\(2\) If the public agency's bond documents require that PFC revenue be commingled in the general revenue stream of the airport and pledged for the benefit of holders of obligations, the FAA considers PFC revenue to have paid the costs covered in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.13   Use of PFC revenue.|§158.13]](d)(1) if—

\(i\) An amount equal to the part of the proceeds of the bond issued to carry out approved projects is used to pay allowable costs of such projects; and

\(ii\) To the extent the PFC revenue collected in any year exceeds the debt service and financing costs on such bonds during that year, an amount equal to the excess is applied as required by [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.39   Use of excess PFC revenue.|§158.39]].

\(e\) *Exception providing for the use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.* The FAA may authorize a public agency under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.18   Use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.|§158.18]] to impose a PFC for payments for debt service on indebtedness incurred to carry out an airport project that is not eligible if the FAA determines that such use is necessary because of the financial need of the airport.

\(f\) *Combination of PFC revenue and Federal grant funds.* A public agency may combine PFC revenue and airport grant funds to carry out an approved project. These projects are subject to the record keeping and auditing requirements of this part, as well as the reporting, record keeping and auditing requirements imposed by the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (AAIA).

\(g\) *Non-Federal share.* Public agencies may use PFC revenue to meet the non-Federal share of the cost of projects funded under the Federal airport grant program or the FAA “Program to Permit Cost-Sharing of Air Traffic Modernization Projects” under 49 U.S.C. 44517.

\(h\) *Approval of project following approval to impose a PFC.* The public agency may not use PFC revenue or interest earned thereon except on an approved project.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28847, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.

\(a\) To be eligible, a project must—

\(1\) Preserve or enhance safety, security, or capacity of the national air transportation system;

\(2\) Reduce noise or mitigate noise impacts resulting from an airport; or

\(3\) Furnish opportunities for enhanced competition between or among air carriers.

\(b\) Eligible projects are any of the following projects—

\(1\) Airport development eligible under subchapter I of chapter 471 of 49 U.S.C.;

\(2\) Airport planning eligible under subchapter I of chapter 471 of 49 U.S.C.;

\(3\) Terminal development as described in 49 U.S.C. 47110(d);

\(4\) Airport noise compatibility planning as described in 49 U.S.C. 47505;

\(5\) Noise compatibility measures eligible for Federal assistance under 49 U.S.C. 47504, without regard to whether the measures are approved under 49 U.S.C. 47504;

\(6\) Construction of gates and related areas at which passengers are enplaned or deplaned and other areas directly related to the movement of passengers and baggage in air commerce within the boundaries of the airport. These areas do not include restaurants, car rental and automobile parking facilities, or other concessions. Projects required to enable added air service by an air carrier with less than 50 percent of the annual passenger boardings at an airport have added eligibility. Such projects may include structural foundations and floor systems, exterior building walls and load-bearing interior columns or walls, windows, door and roof systems, building utilities (including heating, air conditioning, ventilation, plumbing, and electrical service), and aircraft fueling facilities next to the gate;

\(7\) A project approved under the FAA's “Program to Permit Cost-Sharing of Air Traffic Modernization Projects” under 49 U.S.C. 44517; or

\(8\) If the airport is in an air quality nonattainment area (as defined by section 171(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7501(2)) or a maintenance area referred to in section 175A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 7505a), and the project will result in the airport receiving appropriate emission credits as described in 49 U.S.C. 47139, a project for:

\(i\) Converting vehicles eligible under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](b)(1) and ground support equipment powered by a diesel or gasoline engine used at a commercial service airport to low-emission technology certified or verified by the Environmental Protection Agency to reduce emissions or to use cleaner burning conventional fuels; or

\(ii\) Acquiring for use at a commercial service airport vehicles eligible under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](b)(1) and, subject to [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.13   Use of PFC revenue.|§158.13]](c), ground support equipment that include low-emission technology or use cleaner burning fuels.

\(c\) An eligible project must be adequately justified to qualify for PFC funding.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 37127, Aug. 2, 1991; Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28848, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.

\(a\) A project for any airport is eligible for PFC funding at levels of \$4 or \$4.50 if—

\(1\) The project meets the eligibility requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]];

\(2\) The project costs requested for collection at \$4 or \$4.50 cannot be paid for from funds reasonably expected to be available for the programs referred to in 49 U.S.C. 48103; and

\(3\) In the case of a surface transportation or terminal project, the public agency has made adequate provision for financing the airside needs of the airport, including runways, taxiways, aprons, and aircraft gates.

\(b\) In addition, a project for a medium or large airport is only eligible for PFC funding at levels of \$4 or \$4.50 if the project will make a significant contribution to improving air safety and security, increasing competition among air carriers, reducing current or anticipated congestion, or reducing the impact of aviation noise on people living near the airport.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2000-7402, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.18   Use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.

\(a\) The FAA may authorize a public agency to impose a PFC to make payments for debt service on indebtedness incurred to carry out at the airport a project that is not eligible if the FAA determines it is necessary because of the financial need of the airport. The FAA defines financial need in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.3   Definitions.|§158.3]].

\(b\) A public agency may request authority to impose a PFC and use PFC revenue under this section using the PFC application procedures in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]]. The public agency must document its financial position and explain its financial recovery plan that uses all available resources.

\(c\) The FAA reviews the application using the procedures in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.27   Review of applications.|§158.27]]. The FAA will issue its decision on the public agency's request under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.29   The Administrator's decision.|§158.29]].

\[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23730, 72 FR 28848, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.19   Requirement for competition plans.

\(a\) Beginning in fiscal year 2001, no public agency may impose a PFC with respect to a covered airport unless the public agency has submitted a written competition plan. This requirement does not apply to PFC authority approved prior to April 5, 2000.

\(b\) The Administrator will review any plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section to ensure that it meets the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 47106(f) and periodically will review its implementation to ensure that each covered airport successfully implements its plan.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2000-7402, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000\]

## Subpart B—Application and Approval

### §158.20   Submission of required documents.

\(a\) Letters and reports required by this part may be transmitted to the appropriate recipient (the public agency, air carrier, and/or the FAA) via e-mail, courier, facsimile, or U.S. Postal Service.

\(1\) Documents sent electronically to the FAA must be prepared in a format readable by the FAA. Interested parties can obtain the format at their local FAA Airports Office.

\(2\) Any transmission to FAA Headquarters, using regular U.S. Postal Service, is subject to inspection that may result in delay and damage due to the security process.

\(b\) Once the database development is completed with air carrier capability, public agencies and air carriers may use the FAA's national PFC database to post their required quarterly reports, and, in that case, do not have to distribute the reports in any other way.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23730, 72 FR 28848, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.21   General.

This subpart specifies the consultation and application requirements under which a public agency may obtain approval to impose a PFC and use PFC revenue on a project. This subpart also establishes the procedure for the Administrator's review and approval of applications and amendments and establishes requirements for use of excess PFC revenue.

### §158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.

\(a\) *Notice by public agency.* A public agency must provide written notice to air carriers and foreign air carriers having a significant business interest at the airport where the PFC is proposed. A public agency must provide this notice before the public agency files an application with the FAA for authority to impose a PFC under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](b). In addition, public agencies must provide this notice before filing an application with the FAA for authority to use PFC revenue under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](c). Public agencies must also provide this notice before filing a notice of intent to impose and/or use a PFC under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.30   PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.|§158.30]]. Finally, a public agency must provide this notice before filing a request to amend the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC as discussed in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.37   Amendment of approved PFC.|§158.37]](b)(1). The notice shall include:

\(1\) Descriptions of projects being considered for funding by PFC's;

\(2\) The PFC level for each project, the proposed charge effective date, the estimated charge expiration date, and the estimated total PFC revenue;

\(3\) For a request by a public agency that any class or classes of carriers not be required to collect the PFC—

\(i\) The designation of each such class,

\(ii\) The names of the carriers belonging to each such class, to the extent the names are known,

\(iii\) The estimated number of passengers enplaned annually by each such class, and

\(iv\) The public agency's reasons for requesting that carriers in each such class not be required to collect the PFC; and

\(4\) Except as provided in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](c)(2), the date and location of a meeting at which the public agency will present such projects to air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport.

\(b\) *Meeting.* The meeting required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall be held no sooner than 30 days nor later than 45 days after issuance of the written notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. At or before the meeting, the public agency shall provide air carriers and foreign air carriers with—

\(1\) A description of projects;

\(2\) An explanation of the need for the projects; and

\(3\) A detailed financial plan for the projects, including—

\(i\) The estimated allowable project costs allocated to major project elements;

\(ii\) The anticipated total amount of PFC revenue that will be used to finance the projects; and

\(iii\) The source and amount of other funds, if any, needed to finance the projects.

\(c\) *Requirements of air carriers and foreign air carriers.* (1) Within 30 days following issuance of the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section, each carrier must provide the public agency with a written acknowledgement that it received the notice.

\(2\) Within 30 days following the meeting, each carrier must provide the public agency with a written certification of its agreement or disagreement with the proposed project. A certification of disagreement shall contain the reasons for such disagreement. The absence of such reasons shall void a certification of disagreement.

\(3\) If a carrier fails to provide the public agency with timely acknowledgement of the notice or timely certification of agreement or disagreement with the proposed project, the carrier is considered to have certified its agreement.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34541, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14934, Mar. 23, 2005\]

### §158.24   Notice and opportunity for public comment.

(a)(1) *Notice by public agency.* A public agency must provide written notice and an opportunity for public comment before:

\(i\) Filing an application with the FAA for authority to impose a PFC under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](b);

\(ii\) Filing an application with the FAA for authority to use PFC revenue under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](c);

\(iii\) Filing a notice of intent to impose and/or use a PFC under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.30   PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.|§158.30]]; and

\(iv\) Filing a request to amend a previously approved PFC as discussed in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.37   Amendment of approved PFC.|§158.37]](b)(1).

\(2\) The notice must allow the public to file comments for at least 30 days, but no more than 45 days, after the date of publication of the notice or posting on the public agency's Web site, as applicable.

(b)(1) *Notice contents.* The notice required by [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.24   Notice and opportunity for public comment.|§158.24]](a) must include:

\(i\) A description of the project(s) the public agency is considering for funding by PFC's;

\(ii\) A brief justification for each project the public agency is considering for funding by PFC's;

\(iii\) The PFC level for each project;

\(iv\) The estimated total PFC revenue the public agency will use for each project;

\(v\) The proposed charge effective date for the application or notice of intent;

\(vi\) The estimated charge expiration date for the application or notice of intent;

\(vii\) The estimated total PFC revenue the public agency will collect for the application or notice of intent; and

\(viii\) The name of and contact information for the person within the public agency to whom comments should be sent.

\(2\) The public agency must make available a more detailed project justification or the justification documents to the public upon request.

\(c\) *Distribution of notice.* The public agency must make the notice available to the public and interested agencies through one or more of the following methods:

\(1\) Publication in local newspapers of general circulation;

\(2\) Publication in other local media;

\(3\) Posting the notice on the public agency's Internet Web site; or

\(4\) Any other method acceptable to the Administrator.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2004-17999, 70 FR 14934, Mar. 23, 2005\]

### §158.25   Applications.

\(a\) *General.* This section specifies the information the public agency must file when applying for authority to impose a PFC and for authority to use PFC revenue on a project. A public agency may apply for such authority at any commercial service airport it controls. The public agency must use the proposed PFC to finance airport-related projects at that airport or at any existing or proposed airport that the public agency controls. A public agency may apply for authority to impose a PFC before or concurrent with an application to use PFC revenue. If a public agency chooses to apply, it must do so by using FAA Form 5500-1, PFC Application (latest edition) and all applicable Attachments. The public agency must provide the information required under paragraphs (b) or (c), or both, of this section.

\(b\) *Application for authority to impose a PFC.* This paragraph sets forth the information to be submitted by all public agencies seeking authority to impose a PFC. A separate application shall be submitted for each airport at which a PFC is to be imposed. The application shall be signed by an authorized official of the public agency, and, unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, must include the following:

\(1\) The name and address of the public agency.

\(2\) The name and telephone number of the official submitting the application on behalf of the public agency.

\(3\) The official name of the airport at which the PFC is to be imposed.

\(4\) The official name of the airport at which a project is proposed.

\(5\) A copy of the airport capital plan or other documentation of planned improvements for each airport at which a PFC financed project is proposed.

\(6\) A description of each project proposed.

\(7\) The project justification, including the extent to which the project achieves one or more of the objectives set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](a) and (if a PFC level above \$3 is requested) the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]]. In addition—

\(i\) For any project for terminal development, including gates and related areas, the public agency shall discuss any existing conditions that limit competition between and among air carriers and foreign air carriers at the airport, any initiatives it proposes to foster opportunities for enhanced competition between and among such carriers, and the expected results of such initiatives; or

\(ii\) For any terminal development project at a covered airport, the public agency shall submit a competition plan in accordance with [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.19   Requirement for competition plans.|§158.19]].

\(8\) The charge to be imposed for each project.

\(9\) The proposed charge effective date.

\(10\) The estimated charge expiration date.

\(11\) Information on the consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers having a significant business interest at the airport and the public comment process, including:

\(i\) A list of such carriers and those notified;

\(ii\) A list of carriers that acknowledged receipt of the notice provided under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]](a);

\(iii\) Lists of carriers that certified agreement and that certified disagreement with the project;

\(iv\) Information on which method under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.24   Notice and opportunity for public comment.|§158.24]](b) the public agency used to meet the public notice requirement; and

\(v\) A summary of substantive comments by carriers contained in any certifications of disagreement with each project and disagreements with each project provided by the public, and the public agency's reasons for continuing despite such disagreements.

\(12\) If the public agency is also filing a request under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.11   Public agency request not to require collection of PFC's by a class of air carriers or foreign air carriers or for service to isolated communities.|§158.11]]—

\(i\) The request;

\(ii\) A copy of the information provided to the carriers under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]](a)(3);

\(iii\) A copy of the carriers' comments with respect to such information;

\(iv\) A list of any class or classes of carriers that would not be required to collect a PFC if the request is approved; and

\(v\) The public agency's reasons for submitting the request in the face of opposing comments.

\(13\) A copy of information regarding the financing of the project presented to the carriers and foreign air carriers under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] of this part and as revised during the consultation.

\(14\) A copy of all comments received as a result of the carrier consultation and public comment processes.

\(15\) For an application not accompanied by a concurrent application for authority to use PFC revenue:

\(i\) A description of any alternative methods being considered by the public agency to accomplish the objectives of the project;

\(ii\) A description of alternative uses of the PFC revenue to ensure such revenue will be used only on eligible projects in the event the proposed project is not ultimately approved for use of PFC revenue;

\(iii\) A timetable with projected dates for completion of project formulation activities and submission of an application to use PFC revenue; and

\(iv\) A projected date of project implementation and completion.

\(16\) A signed statement certifying that the public agency will comply with the assurances set forth in Appendix A to this part.

\(17\) Such additional information as the Administrator may require.

\(c\) *Application for authority to use PFC revenue.* A public agency may use PFC revenue only for projects approved under this paragraph. This paragraph sets forth the information that a public agency shall submit, unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, when applying for the authority to use PFC revenue to finance specific projects.

\(1\) An application submitted concurrently with an application for the authority to impose a PFC, must include:

\(i\) The information required under paragraphs (b)(1) through (15) of this section;

\(ii\) An FAA Form 5500-1, Attachment G, Airport Layout Plan, Airspace, and Environmental Findings (latest edition) providing the following information:

\(A\) For projects required to be shown on an ALP, the ALP depicting the project has been approved by the FAA and the date of such approval;

\(B\) All environmental reviews required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 have been completed and a copy of the final FAA environmental determination with respect to the project has been approved, and the date of such approval, if such determination is required; and

\(C\) The final FAA airspace determination with respect to the project has been completed, and the date of such determination, if an airspace study is required.

\(iii\) The information required by §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](b)(16) and 158.25(b)(17).

\(2\) An application where the authority to impose a PFC has been previously approved:

\(i\) Must not be filed until the public agency conducts further consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]]. However, the meeting required under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]](a)(4) is optional if there are no changes to the projects after approval of the impose authority and further opportunity for public comment under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.24   Notice and opportunity for public comment.|§158.24]]; and

\(ii\) Must include a summary of further air carrier consultation and the public agency's response to any disagreements submitted under the air carrier consultation and public comment processes conducted under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;

\(iii\) Must include the following, updated and changed where appropriate:

\(A\) FAA Form 5500-1 without attachments except as required below;

\(B\) For any projects where there have been no changes since the FAA approved authority to impose a PFC for those projects, a list of projects included in this application for use authority. The FAA will consider the information on these projects, filed with the impose authority application, incorporated by reference; and

\(C\) For any project that has changed since receiving impose authority, the public agency must file an Attachment B for that project clearly describing the changes to the project.

\(iv\) An FAA Form 5500-1, Attachment G, Airport Layout Plan, Airspace, and Environmental Findings (latest edition) providing the following information:

\(A\) For projects required to be shown on an ALP, the ALP depicting the project has been approved by the FAA and the date of such approval;

\(B\) All environmental reviews required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 have been completed and a copy of the final FAA environmental determination with respect to the project has been approved, and the date of such approval, if such determination is required; and

\(C\) The final FAA airspace determination with respect to the project has been completed, and the date of such determination, if an airspace study is required; and

\(v\) The information required by §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]](b)(16) and 158.25(b)(17).

\[Doc. No. FAA-2004-17999, 70 FR 14935, Mar. 23, 2005\]

### §158.27   Review of applications.

\(a\) *General.* This section describes the process for review of all applications filed under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]] of this part.

\(b\) *Determination of completeness.* Within 30 days after receipt of an application by the FAA Airports office, the Administrator determines whether the application substantially complies with the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]].

\(c\) *Process for substantially complete application.* If the Administrator determines the application is substantially complete, the following procedures apply:

\(1\) The Administrator advises the public agency by letter that its application is substantially complete.

\(2\) The Administrator may opt to publish a notice in the Federal Register advising that the Administrator intends to rule on the application and inviting public comment, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. If the Administrator publishes a notice, the Administrator will provide a copy of the notice to the public agency.

\(3\) If the Administrator publishes a notice, the public agency—

\(i\) Shall make available for inspection, upon request, a copy of the application, notice, and other documents germane to the application, and

\(ii\) May publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the airport covered by the application is located.

\(4\) After reviewing the application and any public comments received from a Federal Register notice, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, before 120 days after the FAA Airports office received the application.

\(d\) *Process for applications not substantially complete.* If the Administrator determines an application is not substantially complete, the following procedures apply:

\(1\) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing that its application is not substantially complete. The notification will list the information required to complete the application.

\(2\) Within 15 days after the Administrator sends such notification, the public agency shall advise the Administrator in writing whether it intends to supplement its application.

\(3\) If the public agency declines to supplement the application, the Administrator follows the procedures for review of an application set forth in paragraph (c) of this section and issues a final decision approving or disapproving the application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the application was received by the FAA Airports office.

\(4\) If the public agency supplements its application, the original application is deemed to be withdrawn for purposes of applying the statutory deadline for the Administrator's decision. Upon receipt of the supplement, the Administrator issues a final decision approving or disapproving the supplemented application, in whole or in part, no later than 120 days after the supplement was received by the FAA Airports office.

\(e\) *The Federal Register notice.* The Federal Register notice includes the following information:

\(1\) The name of the public agency and the airport at which the PFC is to be imposed;

\(2\) A brief description of the PFC project, the level of the proposed PFC, the proposed charge effective date, the proposed charge expiration date and the total estimated PFC revenue;

\(3\) The address and telephone number of the FAA Airports office at which the application may be inspected;

\(4\) The Administrator's determination on whether the application is substantially complete and any information required to complete the application; and

\(5\) The due dates for any public comments.

\(f\) *Public comments.* (1) Interested persons may file comments on the application within 30 days after publication of the Administrator's notice in the Federal Register.

\(2\) Three copies of these comments shall be submitted to the FAA Airports office identified in the Federal Register notice.

\(3\) Commenters shall also provide one copy of their comments to the public agency.

\(4\) Comments from air carriers and foreign air carriers may be in the same form as provided to the public agency under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]].

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 30867, July 8, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14936, Mar. 23, 2005\]

### §158.29   The Administrator's decision.

\(a\) *Authority to impose a PFC.* (1) An application to impose a PFC will be approved in whole or in part only after a determination that—

\(i\) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds amounts necessary to finance the project;

\(ii\) The project will achieve the objectives and criteria set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]] except for those projects approved under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.18   Use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.|§158.18]].

\(iii\) If a PFC level above \$3 is being approved, the project meets the criteria set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]];

\(iv\) The collection process, including any request by the public agency not to require a class of carriers to collect PFC's, is reasonable, not arbitrary, nondiscriminatory, and otherwise in compliance with the law;

\(v\) The public agency has not been found to be in violation of 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526;

\(vi\) The public agency has not been found to be in violation of 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) governing the use of airport revenue;

\(vii\) If the public agency has not applied for authority to use PFC revenue, a finding that there are alternative uses of the PFC revenue to ensure that such revenue will be used on approved projects; and

\(viii\) If applicable, the public agency has submitted a competition plan in accordance with [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.19   Requirement for competition plans.|§158.19]].

\(2\) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision on the application. The notification will list the projects and alternative uses that may qualify for PFC financing under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]], and (if a PFC level above \$3 is being approved) [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]], PFC level, total approved PFC revenue including the amounts approved at \$3 and less, \$4, and/or \$4.50, duration of authority to impose and earliest permissible charge effective date.

\(b\) *Authority to use PFC revenue on an approved project.* (1) An application for authority to use PFC revenue will be approved in whole or in part only after a determination that—

\(i\) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds amounts necessary to finance the project;

\(ii\) The project will achieve the objectives and criteria set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]] except for those projects approved under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.18   Use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.|§158.18]].

\(iii\) If a PFC level above \$3 is being approved, the project meets the criteria set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]]; and

\(iv\) All applicable requirements pertaining to the ALP for the airport, airspace studies for the project, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), have been satisfied.

\(2\) The Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision on the application. The notification will list the approved projects, PFC level, total approved PFC revenue, total approved for collection, including the amounts approved at \$3 and less, \$4, and/or \$4.50, and any limit on the duration of authority to impose a PFC as prescribed under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.33   Duration of authority to impose a PFC before project implementation.|§158.33]].

\(3\) Approval to use PFC revenue to finance a project shall be construed as approval of that project.

\(c\) *Disapproval of application.* (1) If an application is disapproved, the Administrator notifies the public agency in writing of the decision and the reasons for the disapproval.

\(2\) A public agency reapplying for approval to impose or use a PFC must comply with §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]], 158.24, and 158.25.

\(d\) The Administrator publishes a monthly notice of PFC approvals and disapprovals in the Federal Register.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 30867, July 8, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-3, 70 FR 14936, Mar. 23, 2005; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28848, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.30   PFC Authorization at Non-Hub Airports.

\(a\) *General.* This section specifies the procedures a public agency controlling a non-hub airport must follow when notifying the FAA of its intent to impose a PFC and to use PFC revenue on a project under this section. In addition, this section describes the FAA's rules for reviewing and acknowledging a notice of intent filed under this section. A public agency may notify the FAA of its intent to impose a PFC before or concurrent with a notice of intent to use PFC revenue. A public agency must file a notice of intent in the manner and form prescribed by the Administrator and must include the information required under paragraphs (b), (c), or both, of this section.

\(b\) *Notice of intent to impose a PFC.* This paragraph sets forth the information a public agency must file to notify the FAA of its intent to impose a PFC under this section. The public agency must file a separate notice of intent for each airport at which the public agency plans on imposing a PFC. An authorized official of the public agency must sign the notice of intent and, unless authorized by the Administrator, must include:

\(1\) A completed FAA Form 5500-1, PFC Application (latest edition) without attachments except as required below;

\(2\) Project information (in the form and manner prescribed by the FAA) including the project title, PFC funds sought, PFC level sought, and, if an existing Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grant already covers this project, the grant agreement number.

\(3\) If an existing AIP grant does not cover this project, the notice of intent must include the information in paragraph (b)(2) of this section as well as the following:

\(i\) Additional information describing the proposed schedule for the project,

\(ii\) A description of how this project meets one of the PFC objectives in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](a), and

\(iii\) A description of how this project meets the adequate justification requirement in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]](c).

\(4\) A copy of any comments received by the public agency during the air carrier consultation and public comment processes (§[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24) and the public agency's response to any disagreements.

\(5\) If applicable, a request to exclude a class of carriers from the requirement to collect the PFC ([[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.11   Public agency request not to require collection of PFC's by a class of air carriers or foreign air carriers or for service to isolated communities.|§158.11]]).

\(6\) A signed statement certifying that the public agency will comply with the assurances set forth in Appendix A to this part.

\(7\) Any additional information the Administrator may require.

\(c\) *Notice of intent to use PFC revenue.* A public agency may use PFC revenue only for projects included in notices filed under this paragraph or approved under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.29   The Administrator's decision.|§158.29]]. This paragraph sets forth the information that a public agency must file, unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, in its notice of intent to use PFC revenue to finance specific projects under this section.

\(1\) A notice of intent to use PFC revenue filed concurrently with a notice of intent to impose a PFC must include:

\(i\) The information required under paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section;

\(ii\) A completed FAA Form 5500-1, Attachment G, Airport Layout Plan, Airspace, and Environmental Findings (latest edition) for all projects not included in an existing Federal airport program grant.

\(2\) A notice of intent to use PFC revenue where the FAA has previously acknowledged a notice of intent to impose a PFC must:

\(i\) Be preceded by further consultation with air carriers and the opportunity for public comment under §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24 of this part. However, a meeting with the air carriers is optional if all information is the same as that provided with the impose authority notice;

\(ii\) Include a copy of any comments received by the public agency during the air carrier consultation and public comment processes (§[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24) and the public agency's response to any disagreements or negative comments; and

\(iii\) Include any updated and changed information:

\(A\) Required by paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (5), (6), and (7) of this section; and

\(B\) Required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

\(d\) *FAA review of notices of intent.* (1) The FAA will review the notice of intent to determine that:

\(A\) The amount and duration of the PFC will not result in revenue that exceeds the amount necessary to finance the project(s);

\(B\) Each proposed project meets the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.15   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$1, \$2, or \$3.|§158.15]];

\(C\) Each project proposed at a PFC level above \$3.00 meets the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]](a)(2) and (3);

\(D\) All applicable airport layout plan, airspace, and environmental requirements have been met for each project;

\(E\) Any request by the public agency to exclude a class of carriers from the requirement to collect the PFC is reasonable, not arbitrary, nondiscriminatory, and otherwise complies with the law; and

\(F\) The consultation and public comment processes complied with §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24.

\(2\) The FAA will also make a determination regarding the public agency's compliance with 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526 governing airport noise and access restrictions and 49 U.S.C. 47107(b) governing the use of airport revenue. Finally, the FAA will review all comments filed during the air carrier consultation and public comment processes.

\(e\) *FAA acknowledgment of notices of intent.* Within 30 days of receipt of the public agency's notice of intent about its PFC program, the FAA will issue a written acknowledgment of the public agency's notice. The FAA's acknowledgment may concur with all proposed projects, may object to some or all proposed projects, or may object to the notice of intent in its entirety. The FAA's acknowledgment will include the reason(s) for any objection(s).

\(f\) Public agency actions following issuance of FAA acknowledgment letter. If the FAA does not object to either a project or the notice of intent in its entirety, the public agency may implement its PFC program. The public agency's implementation must follow the information specified in its notice of intent. If the FAA objects to a project, the public agency may not collect or use PFC revenue on that project. If the FAA objects to the notice of intent in its entirety, the public agency may not implement the PFC program proposed in that notice. When implementing a PFC under this section, except for [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.25   Applications.|§158.25]], a public agency must comply with all sections of part 158.

\(g\) *Acknowledgment not an order.* An FAA acknowledgment issued under this section is not considered an order issued by the Secretary for purposes of 49 U.S.C. 46110 (Judicial Review).

\(h\) *Sunset provision.* This section will expire May 9, 2008.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2004-17999, 70 FR 14936, Mar. 23, 2005\]

### §158.31   Duration of authority to impose a PFC after project implementation.

A public agency that has begun implementing an approved project may impose a PFC until—

\(a\) The charge expiration date is reached;

\(b\) The total PFC revenue collected plus interest earned thereon equals the allowable cost of the approved project;

\(c\) The authority to collect the PFC is terminated by the Administrator under subpart E of this part; or

\(d\) The public agency is determined by the Administrator to be in violation of 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526, and the authority to collect the PFC is terminated under that statute's implementing regulations under this title.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.33   Duration of authority to impose a PFC before project implementation.

\(a\) A public agency shall not impose a PFC beyond the lesser of the following—

\(1\) 2 years after approval to use PFC revenue on an approved project if the project has not been implemented, or

\(2\) 5 years after the charge effective date; or

\(3\) 5 years after the FAA's decision on the application (if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date) if an approved project is not implemented.

\(b\) If, in the Administrator's judgment, the public agency has not made sufficient progress toward implementation of an approved project within the times specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator begins termination proceedings under subpart E of this part.

\(c\) The authority to impose a PFC following approval shall automatically expire without further action by the Administrator on the following dates:

\(1\) 3 years after the charge effective date; or 3 years after the FAA's decision on the application if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date unless—

\(i\) The public agency has filed an application for approval to use PFC revenue for an eligible project that is pending before the FAA;

\(ii\) An application to use PFC revenue has been approved; or

\(iii\) A request for extension (not to exceed 2 years) to submit an application for project approval, under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.35   Extension of time to submit application to use PFC revenue.|§158.35]], has been granted; or

\(2\) 5 years after the charge effective date; or 5 years after the FAA's decision on the application (if the charge effective date is more than 60 days after the decision date) unless the public agency has obtained project approval.

\(d\) If the authority to impose a PFC expires under paragraph (c) of this section, the public agency must provide the FAA with a list of the air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport and all other collecting carriers that have remitted PFC revenue to the public agency in the preceding 12 months. The FAA notifies each of the listed carriers to terminate PFC collection no later than 30 days after the date of notification by the FAA.

\(e\) Restriction on reauthorization to impose a PFC. Whenever the authority to impose a PFC has expired or been terminated under this section, the Administrator will not grant new approval to impose a PFC in advance of implementation of an approved project.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 37127, Aug. 2, 1991; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.35   Extension of time to submit application to use PFC revenue.

\(a\) A public agency may request an extension of time to submit an application to use PFC revenue after approval of an application to impose PFC's. At least 30 days prior to submitting such request, the public agency shall publish notice of its intention to request an extension in a local newspaper of general circulation and shall request comments. The notice shall include progress on the project, a revised schedule for obtaining project approval and reasons for the delay in submitting the application.

\(b\) The request shall be submitted at least 120 days prior to the charge expiration date and, unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, shall be accompanied by the following:

\(1\) A description of progress on the project application to date.

\(2\) A revised schedule for submitting the application.

\(3\) An explanation of the reasons for delay in submitting the application.

\(4\) A summary financial report depicting the total amount of PFC revenue collected plus interest, the projected amount to be collected during the period of the requested extension, and any public agency funds used on the project for which reimbursement may be sought.

\(5\) A summary of any further consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport.

\(6\) A summary of comments received in response to the local notice.

\(c\) The Administrator reviews the request for extension and accompanying information, to determine whether—

\(1\) The public agency has shown good cause for the delay in applying for project approval;

\(2\) The revised schedule is satisfactory; and

\(3\) Further collection will not result in excessive accumulation of PFC revenue.

\(d\) The Administrator, upon determining that the agency has shown good cause for the delay and that other elements of the request are satisfactory, grants the request for extension to the public agency. The Administrator advises the public agency in writing not more than 90 days after receipt of the request. The duration of the extension shall be as specified in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.33   Duration of authority to impose a PFC before project implementation.|§158.33]] of this part.

### §158.37   Amendment of approved PFC.

(a)(1) A public agency may amend the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC to:

\(i\) Increase or decrease the level of PFC the public agency wants to collect from each passenger,

\(ii\) Increase or decrease the total approved PFC revenue,

\(iii\) Change the scope of an approved project,

\(iv\) Delete an approved project, or

\(v\) Establish a new class of carriers under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.11   Public agency request not to require collection of PFC's by a class of air carriers or foreign air carriers or for service to isolated communities.|§158.11]] or amend any such class previously approved.

\(2\) A public agency may not amend the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC to add projects, change an approved project to a different facility type, or alter an approved project to accomplish a different purpose.

\(b\) The public agency must file a request to the Administrator to amend the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC. The request must include or demonstrate:

(1)(i) Further consultation with the air carriers and foreign air carriers and seek public comment in accordance with §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24 when applying for those requests to:

\(A\) Amend the approved PFC amount for a project by more than 25 percent of the original approved amount if the amount was \$1,000,000 or greater,

\(B\) Amend the approved PFC amount for a project by any percentage if the original approved amount was below \$1,000,000 and the amended approved amount is \$1,000,000 or greater,

\(C\) Change the scope of a project, or

\(D\) Increase the PFC level to be collected from each passenger.

\(ii\) No further consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers or public comment is required by a public agency in accordance with §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24 when applying for an amendment in the following situations:

\(A\) To institute a decrease in the level of PFC to be collected from each passenger;

\(B\) To institute a decrease in the total PFC revenue;

\(C\) To institute an increase of 25 percent or less of the original approved amount if the amount was more than \$1,000,000; or

\(D\) To institute an increase of any amount if the original approved amount of the project was less than \$1,000,000 and if the amended approved amount of the project remains below \$1,000,000; or

\(E\) To establish a new class of carriers under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.11   Public agency request not to require collection of PFC's by a class of air carriers or foreign air carriers or for service to isolated communities.|§158.11]] or amend any such class previously approved; or

\(F\) To delete an approved project.

\(2\) A copy of any comments received from the processes in paragraph (b)(1)(A) of this section for the carrier consultation and the opportunity for public comment in accordance with §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.23   Consultation with air carriers and foreign air carriers.|§158.23]] and 158.24;

\(3\) The public agency's reasons for continuing despite any objections;

\(4\) A description of the proposed amendment;

\(5\) Justification, if the amendment involves an increase in the PFC amount for a project by more than 25 percent of the original approved amount if that amount is \$1,000,000 or greater, an increase in the PFC amount by any percentage if the original approved amount was less than \$1,000,000 and the amended approved amount is \$1,000,000 or greater, a change in the approved project scope, or any increase in the approved PFC level to be collected from each passenger.

\(6\) A description of how each project meets the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]](b), for each project proposed for an increase of the PFC level above \$3.00 at a medium or large hub airport;

\(7\) A signed statement certifying that the public agency has met the requiements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.19   Requirement for competition plans.|§158.19]], if applicable, for any amendment proposing to increase the PFC level above \$3.00 at a medium or large hub airport; and

\(8\) Any other information the Administrator may require.

\(c\) The Administrator will approve, partially approve or disapprove the amendment request and notify the public agency of the decision within 30 days of receipt of the request. If a PFC level of more than \$3.00 is approved, the Administrator must find the project meets the requirements of §[[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.17   Project eligibility at PFC levels of \$4 or \$4.50.|§158.17]] and 158.19, if applicable, before the public agency can implement the new PFC level.

\(d\) The public agency must notify the carriers of any change to the FAA's decision with respect to an approved PFC resulting from an amendment. The effective date of any new PFC level must be no earlier than the first day of a month which is at least 30 days from the date the public agency notifies the carriers.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2004-17999, 70 FR 14937, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.39   Use of excess PFC revenue.

\(a\) If the PFC revenue remitted to the public agency, plus interest earned thereon, exceeds the allowable cost of the project, the public agency must use the excess funds for approved projects or to retire outstanding PFC-financed bonds.

\(b\) For bond-financed projects, any excess PFC revenue collected under debt servicing requirements shall be retained by the public agency and used for approved projects or retirement of outstanding PFC-financed bonds.

\(c\) When the authority to impose a PFC has expired or has been terminated, accumulated PFC revenue shall be used for approved projects or retirement of outstanding PFC-financed bonds.

\(d\) Within 30 days after the authority to impose a PFC has expired or been terminated, the public agency must present a plan to the appropriate FAA Airports office to begin using accumulated PFC revenue. The plan must include a timetable for submitting any necessary application under this part. If the public agency fails to submit such a plan, or if the plan is not acceptable to the Administrator, the Administrator may reduce Federal airport grant program apportioned funds.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

## Subpart C—Collection, Handling, and Remittance of PFC's

### §158.41   General.

This subpart contains the requirements for notification, collection, handling and remittance of PFC's.

### §158.43   Public agency notification to collect PFC's.

\(a\) Following approval of an application to impose a PFC under subpart B of this part, the public agency shall notify the air carriers and foreign air carriers required to collect PFC's at its airport of the Administrator's approval. Each notified carrier shall notify its agents, including other issuing carriers, of the collection requirement.

\(b\) The notification shall be in writing and contain at a minimum the following information:

\(1\) The level of PFC to be imposed.

\(2\) The total revenue to be collected.

\(3\) The charge effective date will always be the first day of the month; however, it must be at least 30 days after the date the public agency notified the air carriers of the FAA's approval to impose the PFC.

\(4\) The proposed charge expiration date.

\(5\) A copy of the Administrator's notice of approval.

\(6\) The address where remittances and reports are to be filed by carriers.

\(c\) The public agency must notify air carriers required to collect PFCs at its airport and the FAA of changes in the charge expiration date at least 30 days before the existing charge expiration date or new charge expiration date, whichever comes first. Each notified air carrier must notify its agents, including other issuing carriers, of such changes.

\(d\) The public agency shall provide a copy of the notification to the appropriate FAA Airports office.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.45   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.

\(a\) On and after the charge effective date, tickets issued in the U.S. shall include the required PFC except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

\(1\) Issuing carriers shall be responsible for all funds from time of collection to remittance.

\(2\) The appropriate charge is the PFC in effect at the time the ticket is issued.

\(3\) Issuing carriers and their agents shall collect PFCs based on the itinerary at the time of issuance.

\(i\) Any change in itinerary initiated by a passenger that requires an adjustment to the amount paid by the passenger is subject to collection or refund of the PFC as appropriate.

\(ii\) Failure to travel on a nonrefundable or expired ticket is not a change in itinerary. If the ticket purchaser is not permitted any fare refund on the unused ticket, the ticket purchaser is not permitted a refund of any PFC associated with that ticket.

\(b\) Issuing carriers and their agents shall note as a separate item on each air travel ticket upon which a PFC is shown, the total amount of PFC's paid by the passenger and the airports for which the PFC's are collected.

\(c\) For each one-way trip shown on the complete itinerary of an air travel ticket, issuing air carriers and their agents shall collect a PFC from a passenger only for the first two airports where PFC's are imposed. For each round trip, a PFC shall be collected only for enplanements at the first two enplaning airports and the last two enplaning airports where PFC's are imposed.

\(d\) In addition to the restriction in paragraph (c) of this section, issuing carriers and their agents shall not collect PFC's from a passenger covered by any of the other limitations described in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.9   Limitations.|§158.9]](a).

\(e\) Collected PFC's shall be distributed as noted on the air travel ticket.

\(f\) Issuing carriers and their agents shall stop collecting the PFC's on the charge expiration date stated in a notice from the public agency, or as required by the Administrator.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.47   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued outside the U.S.

\(a\) For tickets issued outside the U.S., an air carrier or foreign air carrier may follow the requirements of either [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.45   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.|§158.45]] or this section, unless the itinerary is for travel wholly within the U.S. Air carriers and foreign air carriers must comply with [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.45   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.|§158.45]] where the itinerary is for travel wholly within the U.S. regardless of where the ticket is issued.

\(b\) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, no foreign airline is required to collect a PFC on air travel tickets issued on its own ticket stock unless it serves a point or points in the U.S.

\(c\) If an air carrier or foreign air carrier elects not to comply with [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.45   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.|§158.45]] for tickets issued outside the U.S.—

\(1\) The carrier is required to collect PFC's on such tickets only for the public agency controlling the last airport at which the passenger is enplaned prior to departure from the U.S.

\(2\) The carrier may collect the PFC either at the time the ticket is issued or at the time the passenger is last enplaned prior to departure from the U.S. The carrier may vary the method of collection among its flights.

\(3\) The carrier shall provide a written record to the passenger that a PFC has been collected. Such a record shall appear on or with the air travel ticket and shall include the same information as required by [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.45   Collection of PFC's on tickets issued in the U.S.|§158.45]](b), but need not be preprinted on the ticket stock.

\(4\) Issuing carriers and their agents shall collect PFCs based on the itinerary at the time of issuance.

\(i\) Any change in itinerary initiated by a passenger that requires an adjustment to the amount paid by the passenger is subject to collection or refund of the PFC as appropriate.

\(ii\) Failure to travel on a nonrefundable or expired ticket is not a change in itinerary. If the ticket purchaser is not permitted any fare refund on the unused ticket, the ticket purchaser is not permitted a refund of any PFC associated with that ticket.

\(d\) With respect to a flight on which the air carrier or foreign air carrier chooses to collect the PFC at the time the air travel ticket is issued—

\(1\) The carrier and its agents shall collect the required PFC on tickets issued on or after the charge effective date.

\(2\) The carrier is not required to collect PFC's at the time of enplanement for tickets sold by other air carriers or foreign air carriers or their agents.

\(e\) With respect to a flight on which the air carrier or foreign air carrier chooses to collect the PFC at the time of enplanement, the carrier shall examine the air travel ticket of each passenger enplaning at the airport on and after the charge effective date and shall collect the PFC from any passenger whose air travel ticket does not include a written record indicating that the PFC was collected at the time of issuance.

\(f\) Collected PFC's shall be distributed as noted on the written record provided to the passenger.

\(g\) Collecting carriers shall be responsible for all funds from time of collection to remittance.

\(h\) Collecting carriers and their agents shall stop collecting the PFC on the charge expiration date stated in a notice from the public agency, or as required by the Administrator.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991; 56 FR 37127, Aug. 2, 1991; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28849, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.49   Handling of PFC's.

\(a\) Collecting carriers shall establish and maintain a financial management system to account for PFC's in accordance with the Department of Transportation's Uniform System of Accounts and Reports ([[Volume 4/A Economic regulations/0241 Uniform system of accounts and reports for large certificated air carriers.md|14 CFR part 241]]). For carriers not subject to [[Volume 4/A Economic regulations/0241 Uniform system of accounts and reports for large certificated air carriers.md|14 CFR part 241]], such carriers shall establish and maintain an accounts payable system to handle PFC revenue with subaccounts for each public agency to which such carrier remits PFC revenue.

\(b\) Collecting carriers must account for PFC revenue separately. PFC revenue may be commingled with the air carrier's other sources of revenue except for covered air carriers discussed in paragraph (c) of this section. PFC revenues held by an air carrier or an agent of the air carrier after collection are held in trust for the beneficial interest of the public agency imposing the PFC. Such air carrier or agent holds neither legal nor equitable interest in the PFC revenues except for any handling fee or interest collected on unremitted proceeds as authorized in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.53   Collection compensation.|§158.53]].

(c)(1) A covered air carrier must segregate PFC revenue in a designated separate PFC account. Regardless of the amount of PFC revenue in the covered air carrier's account at the time the bankruptcy petition is filed, the covered air carrier must deposit into the separate PFC account an amount equal to the average monthly liability for PFCs collected under this section by such air carrier or any of its agents.

\(i\) The covered air carrier is required to create one PFC account to cover all PFC revenue it collects. The designated PFC account is solely for PFC transactions and the covered air carrier must make all PFC transactions from that PFC account. The covered air carrier is not required to create separate PFC accounts for each airport where a PFC is imposed.

\(ii\) The covered air carrier must transfer PFCs from its general accounts into the separate PFC account in an amount equal to the average monthly liability for PFCs as the “PFC reserve.” The PFC reserve must equal a one-month average of the sum of the total PFCs collected by the covered air carrier, net of any credits or handling fees allowed by law, during the past 12-month period of PFC collections immediately before entering bankruptcy.

\(iii\) The minimum PFC reserve balance must never fall below the fixed amount defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

\(iv\) A covered air carrier may continue to deposit the PFCs it collects into its general operating accounts combined with ticket sales revenue. However, at least once every business day, the covered air carrier must remove all PFC revenue (Daily PFC amount) from those accounts and transfer it to the new PFC account. An estimate based on 1⁄30 of the PFC reserve balance is permitted in substitution of the Daily PFC amount.

\(A\) In the event a covered air carrier ceases operations while still owing PFC remittances, the PFC reserve fund may be used to make those remittances. If there is any balance in the PFC reserve fund after all PFC remittances are made, that balance will be returned to the covered air carrier's general account.

\(B\) In the event a covered air carrier emerges from bankruptcy protection and ceases to be a covered air carrier, any balance remaining in the PFC reserve fund after any outstanding PFC obligations are met will be returned to the air carrier's general account.

\(v\) If the covered air carrier uses an estimate rather than the daily PFC amount, the covered air carrier shall reconcile the estimated amount with the actual amount of PFCs collected for the prior month (Actual Monthly PFCs). This reconciliation must take place no later than the 20th day of the month (or the next business day if the date is not a business day). In the event the Actual Monthly PFCs are greater than the aggregate estimated PFC amount, the covered air carrier will, within one business day of the reconciliation, deposit the difference into the PFC account. If the Actual Monthly PFCs are less than the aggregate estimated PFC amount, the covered air carrier will be entitled to a credit in the amount of the difference to be applied to the daily PFC amount due.

\(vi\) The covered air carrier is permitted to recalculate and reset the PFC reserve and daily PFC amount on each successive anniversary date of its bankruptcy petition using the methodology described above.

\(2\) If a covered air carrier or its agent fails to segregate PFC revenue in violation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the trust fund status of such revenue shall not be defeated by an inability of any party to identify and trace the precise funds in the accounts of the air carrier.

\(3\) A covered air carrier and its agents may not grant to any third party any security or other interest in PFC revenue.

\(4\) A covered air carrier that fails to comply with any requirement of paragraph (c) of this section, or causes an eligible public agency to spend funds to recover or retain payment of PFC revenue, must compensate that public agency for those cost incurred to recover the PFCs owed.

\(5\) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section that allow the commingling of PFCs with other air carrier revenue do not apply to a covered air carrier.

\(d\) All collecting air carriers must disclose the existence and amount of PFC funds regarded as trust funds in their financial statements.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28850, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.51   Remittance of PFC's.

Passenger facility charges collected by carriers shall be remitted to the public agency on a monthly basis. PFC revenue recorded in the accounting system of the carrier, as set forth in [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.49   Handling of PFC's.|§158.49]] of this part, shall be remitted to the public agency no later than the last day of the following calendar month (or if that date falls on a weekend or holiday, the first business day thereafter).

### §158.53   Collection compensation.

\(a\) As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the PFC revenue, the collecting air carrier is entitled to:

\(1\) \$0.11 of each PFC collected.

\(2\) Any interest or other investment return earned on PFC revenue between the time of collection and remittance to the public agency.

\(b\) A covered air carrier that fails to designate a separate PFC account is prohibited from collecting interest on the PFC revenue. Where a covered air carrier maintains a separate PFC account in compliance with [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.49   Handling of PFC's.|§158.49]](c), it will receive the interest on PFC accounts as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(c)(1) Collecting air carriers may provide collection cost data periodically to the FAA after the agency issues a notice in the Federal Register that specifies the information and deadline for filing the information. Submission of the information is voluntary. The requested information must include data on interest earned by the air carriers on PFC revenue and air carrier collection, handling, and remittance costs in the following categories:

\(i\) Credit card fees;

\(ii\) Audit fees;

\(iii\) PFC disclosure fees;

\(iv\) Reservations costs;

\(v\) Passenger service costs;

\(vi\) Revenue accounting, data entry, accounts payable, tax, and legal fees;

\(vii\) Corporate property department costs;

\(viii\) Training for reservations agents, ticket agents, and other departments;

\(ix\) Ongoing carrier information systems costs;

\(x\) Ongoing computer reservations systems costs; and

\(xi\) Airline Reporting Corporation fees.

\(2\) The FAA may determine a new compensation level based on an analysis of the data provided under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if the data is submitted by carriers representing at least 75 percent of PFCs collected nationwide.

\(3\) Any new compensation level determined by the FAA under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will replace the level identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23730, 72 FR 28850, May 23, 2007; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 31714, June 8, 2007\]

## Subpart D—Reporting, Recordkeeping and Audits

### §158.61   General.

This subpart contains the requirements for reporting, recordkeeping and auditing of accounts maintained by collecting carriers and by public agencies.

### §158.63   Reporting requirements: Public agency.

\(a\) The public agency must provide quarterly reports to air carriers collecting PFCs for the public agency with a copy to the appropriate FAA Airports Office. The quarterly report must include:

\(1\) Actual PFC revenue received from collecting air carriers, interest earned, and project expenditures for the quarter;

\(2\) Cumulative actual PFC revenue received, interest earned, project expenditures, and the amount committed for use on currently approved projects, including the quarter;

\(3\) The PFC level for each project; and

\(4\) Each project's current schedule.

\(b\) The report shall be provided on or before the last day of the calendar month following the calendar quarter or other period agreed by the public agency and collecting carrier.

\(c\) For medium and large hub airports, the public agency must provide to the FAA, by July 1 of each year, an estimate of PFC revenue to be collected for each airport in the following fiscal year.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34542, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28851, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.65   Reporting requirements: Collecting air carriers.

\(a\) Each air carrier collecting PFCs for a public agency must provide quarterly reports to the public agency unless otherwise agreed by the collecting air carrier and public agency, providing an accounting of funds collected and funds remitted.

\(1\) Unless otherwise agreed by the collecting air carrier and public agency, reports must state:

\(i\) The collecting air carrier and airport involved,

\(ii\) The total PFC revenue collected,

\(iii\) The total PFC revenue refunded to passengers,

\(iv\) The collected revenue withheld for reimbursement of expenses under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.53   Collection compensation.|§158.53]], and

\(v\) The dates and amounts of each remittance for the quarter.

\(2\) The report must be filed by the last day of the month following the calendar quarter or other period agreed by the collecting carrier and public agency for which funds were collected.

\(b\) A covered air carrier must provide the FAA with:

\(1\) A copy of its quarterly report by the established schedule under paragraph (a) of this section; and

\(2\) A monthly PFC account statement delivered not later than the fifth day of the following month. This monthly statement must include:

\(i\) The balance in the account on the first day of the month,

\(ii\) The total funds deposited during the month,

\(iii\) The total funds disbursed during the month, and

\(iv\) The closing balance in the account.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23730, 72 FR 28851, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.67   Recordkeeping and auditing: Public agency.

\(a\) Each public agency shall keep any unliquidated PFC revenue remitted to it by collecting carriers on deposit in an interest bearing account or in other interest bearing instruments used by the public agency's airport capital fund. Interest earned on such PFC revenue shall be used, in addition to the principal, to pay the allowable costs of PFC-funded projects. PFC revenue may only be commingled with other public agency airport capital funds in deposits or interest bearing instruments.

\(b\) Each public agency shall establish and maintain for each approved application a separate accounting record. The accounting record shall identify the PFC revenue received from the collecting carriers, interest earned on such revenue, the amounts used on each project, and the amount reserved for currently approved projects.

\(c\) At least annually during the period the PFC is collected, held or used, each public agency shall provide for an audit of its PFC account. The audit shall be performed by an accredited independent public accountant and may be of limited scope. The accountant shall express an opinion of the fairness and reasonableness of the public agency's procedures for receiving, holding, and using PFC revenue. The accountant shall also express an opinion on whether the quarterly report required under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.63   Reporting requirements: Public agency.|§158.63]] fairly represents the net transactions within the PFC account. The audit may be—

\(1\) Performed specifically for the PFC account; or

\(2\) Conducted as part of an audit under Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133 (the Single Audit Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-502, and the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, Pub. L. 104-156) provided the auditor specifically addresses the PFC.

\(3\) Upon request, a copy of the audit shall be provided to each collecting carrier that remitted PFC revenue to the public agency in the period covered by the audit and to the Administrator.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28851, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.69   Recordkeeping and auditing: Collecting carriers.

\(a\) Collecting carriers shall establish and maintain for each public agency for which they collect a PFC an accounting record of PFC revenue collected, remitted, refunded and compensation retained under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.53   Collection compensation.|§158.53]](a) of this part. The accounting record shall identify the airport at which the passengers were enplaned.

\(b\) Each collecting carrier that collects more than 50,000 PFC's annually shall provide for an audit at least annually of its PFC account.

\(1\) The audit shall be performed by an accredited independent public accountant and may be of limited scope. The accountant shall express an opinion on the fairness and reasonableness of the carrier's procedures for collecting, holding, and dispersing PFC revenue. The opinion shall also address whether the quarterly reports required under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.65   Reporting requirements: Collecting air carriers.|§158.65]] fairly represent the net transactions in the PFC account.

\(2\) For the purposes of an audit under this section, collection is defined as the point when agents or other intermediaries remit PFC revenue to the carrier.

\(3\) Upon request, a copy of the audit shall be provided to each public agency for which a PFC is collected.

### §158.71   Federal oversight.

\(a\) The Administrator may periodically audit and/or review the use of PFC revenue by a public agency. The purpose of the audit or review is to ensure that the public agency is in compliance with the requirements of this part and 49 U.S.C. 40117.

\(b\) The Administrator may periodically audit and/or review the collection and remittance by the collecting carriers of PFC revenue. The purpose of the audit or review is to ensure collecting carriers are in compliance with the requirements of this part and 49 U.S.C. 40117.

\(c\) Public agencies and carriers shall allow any authorized representative of the Administrator, the Secretary of Transportation, or the Comptroller General of the U.S., access to any of its books, documents, papers, and records pertinent to PFC's

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000\]

## Subpart E—Termination

### §158.81   General.

This subpart contains the procedures for termination of PFCs or loss of Federal airport grant funds for violations of this part or 49 U.S.C. 40117. This subpart does not address the circumstances under which the authority to collect PFCs may be terminated for violations of 49 U.S.C. 47523 through 47528.

\[Doc. No. FAA-2006-23730, 72 FR 28851, May 23, 2007\]

### §158.83   Informal resolution.

The Administrator shall undertake informal resolution with the public agency or any other affected party if, after review under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.71   Federal oversight.|§158.71]], the Administrator cannot determine that PFC revenue is being used for the approved projects in accordance with the terms of the Administrator's approval to impose a PFC for those projects or with 49 U.S.C. 40117.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.85   Termination of authority to impose PFC's.

\(a\) The FAA begins proceedings to terminate the public agency's authority to impose a PFC only if the Administrator determines that informal resolution is not successful.

\(b\) The Administrator publishes a notice of proposed termination in the Federal Register and supplies a copy to the public agency. This notice will state the scope of the proposed termination, the basis for the proposed action and the date for filing written comments or objections by all interested parties. This notice will also identify any corrective actions the public agency can take to avoid further proceedings. The due date for comments and corrective action shall be no less than 60 days after publication of the notice.

\(c\) If corrective action has not been taken as prescribed by the Administrator, the FAA holds a public hearing, and notice is given to the public agency and published in the Federal Register at least 30 days prior to the hearing. The hearing will be in a form determined by the Administrator to be appropriate to the circumstances and to the matters in dispute.

\(d\) The Administrator publishes the final decision in the Federal Register. Where appropriate, the Administrator may prescribe corrective action, including any corrective action the public agency may yet take. A copy of the notice is also provided to the public agency.

\(e\) Within 10 days of the date of publication of the notice of the Administrator's decision, the public agency shall—

\(1\) Advise the FAA in writing that it will complete any corrective action prescribed in the decision within 30 days; or

\(2\) Provide the FAA with a listing of the air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport and all other issuing carriers that have remitted PFC revenue to the public agency in the preceding 12 months.

\(f\) When the Administrator's decision does not provide for corrective action or the public agency fails to complete such action, the FAA provides a copy of the Federal Register notice to each air carrier and foreign air carrier identified in paragraph (e) of this section. Such carriers are responsible for terminating or modifying PFC collection no later than 30 days after the date of notification by the FAA.

### §158.87   Loss of Federal airport grant funds.

\(a\) If the Administrator determines that revenue derived from a PFC is excessive or is not being used as approved, the Administrator may reduce the amount of funds otherwise payable to the public agency under 49 U.S.C. 47114. Such a reduction may be made as a corrective action under [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.83   Informal resolution.|§158.83]] or [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md#§158.85   Termination of authority to impose PFC's.|§158.85]] of this part.

\(b\) The amount of the reduction under paragraph (a) of this section shall equal the excess collected, or the amount not used in accordance with this part.

\(c\) A reduction under paragraph (a) of this section shall not constitute a withholding of approval of a grant application or the payment of funds under an approved grant within the meaning of 49 U.S.C. 47111(d).

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000\]

## Subpart F—Reduction in Airport Improvement Program Apportionment

### §158.91   General.

This subpart describes the required reduction in funds apportioned to a large or medium hub airport that imposes a PFC.

### §158.93   Public agencies subject to reduction.

The funds apportioned under 49 U.S.C. 47114 to a public agency for a specific primary commercial service airport that it controls are reduced if—

\(a\) Such airport enplanes 0.25 percent or more of the total annual enplanements in the U.S., and

\(b\) The public agency imposes a PFC at such airport.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000\]

### §158.95   Implementation of reduction.

\(a\) A reduction in apportioned funds will not take effect until the first fiscal year following the year in which the collection of the PFC is begun and will be applied in each succeeding fiscal year in which the public agency imposes the PFC.

\(b\) The reduction in apportioned funds is calculated at the beginning of each fiscal year and shall be an amount equal to—

\(1\) In the case of a fee of \$3 or less, 50 percent of the projected revenues from the fee in the fiscal year but not by more than 50 percent of the amount that otherwise would be apportioned under this section; and

\(2\) In the case of a fee of more than \$3, 75 percent of the projected revenues from the fee in the fiscal year but not by more than 75 percent of the amount that otherwise would be apportioned under this section.

\(c\) If the projection of PFC revenue in a fiscal year is inaccurate, the reduction in apportioned funds may be increased or decreased in the following fiscal year, except that any further reduction shall not cause the total reduction to exceed 50 percent of such apportioned amount as would otherwise be apportioned in any fiscal year.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000\]

##    

### Appendix A to Part 158—Assurances

A. *General.*

1\. These assurances shall be complied with in the conduct of a project funded with passenger facility charge (PFC) revenue.

2\. These assurances are required to be submitted as part of the application for approval of authority to impose a PFC under the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 40117.

3\. Upon approval by the Administrator of an application, the public agency is responsible for compliance with these assurances.

B. *Public agency certification.* The public agency hereby assures and certifies, with respect to this project that:

1\. Responsibility and authority of the public agency. It has legal authority to impose a PFC and to finance and carry out the proposed project; that a resolution, motion or similar action has been duly adopted or passed as an official act of the public agency's governing body authorizing the filing of the application, including all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public agency to act in connection with the application.

2\. Compliance with regulation. It will comply with all provisions of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md|14 CFR part 158]].

3\. Compliance with state and local laws and regulations. It has complied, or will comply, with all applicable State and local laws and regulations.

4\. Environmental, airspace and airport layout plan requirements. It will not use PFC revenue on a project until the FAA has notified the public agency that—

\(a\) Any actions required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 have been completed;

\(b\) The appropriate airspace finding has been made; and

\(c\) The FAA Airport Layout Plan with respect to the project has been approved.

5\. Nonexclusivity of contractual agreements. It will not enter into an exclusive long-term lease or use agreement with an air carrier or foreign air carrier for projects funded by PFC revenue. Such leases or use agreements will not preclude the public agency from funding, developing, or assigning new capacity at the airport with PFC revenue.

6\. Carryover provisions. It will not enter into any lease or use agreement with any air carrier or foreign air carrier for any facility financed in whole or in part with revenue derived from a passenger facility charge if such agreement for such facility contains a carryover provision regarding a renewal option which, upon expiration of the original lease, would operate to automatically extend the term of such agreement with such carrier in preference to any potentially competing air carrier or foreign air carrier seeking to negotiate a lease or use agreement for such facilities.

7\. Competitive access. It agrees that any lease or use agreements between the public agency and any air carrier or foreign air carrier for any facility financed in whole or in part with revenue derived from a passenger facility charge will contain a provision that permits the public agency to terminate the lease or use agreement if—

\(a\) The air carrier or foreign air carrier has an exclusive lease or use agreement for existing facilities at such airport; and

\(b\) Any portion of its existing exclusive use facilities is not fully utilized and is not made available for use by potentially competing air carriers or foreign air carriers.

8\. Rates, fees and charges.

\(a\) It will not treat PFC revenue as airport revenue for the purpose of establishing a rate, fee or charge pursuant to a contract with an air carrier or foreign air carrier.

\(b\) It will not include in its rate base by means of depreciation, amortization, or any other method, that portion of the capital costs of a project paid for by PFC revenue for the purpose of establishing a rate, fee or charge pursuant to a contract with an air carrier or foreign air carrier.

\(c\) Notwithstanding the limitation provided in subparagraph (b), with respect to a project for terminal development, gates and related areas, or a facility occupied or used by one or more air carriers or foreign air carriers on an exclusive or preferential basis, the rates, fees, and charges payable by such carriers that use such facilities will be no less than the rates, fees, and charges paid by such carriers using similar facilities at the airport that were not financed by PFC revenue.

9\. Standards and specifications. It will carry out the project in accordance with FAA airport design, construction and equipment standards and specifications contained in advisory circulars current on the date of project approval.

10\. Recordkeeping and Audit. It will maintain an accounting record for audit purposes for 3 years after physical and financial completion of the project. All records must satisfy the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md|14 CFR part 158]] and contain documentary evidence for all items of project costs.

11\. Reports. It will submit reports in accordance with the requirements of [[Volume 3/I Airports/0158 Passenger facility charges (pfc's).md|14 CFR part 158]], subpart D, and as the Administrator may reasonably request.

12\. Compliance with 49 U.S.C. 47523 through 47528. It understands 49 U.S.C. 47524 and 47526 require that the authority to impose a PFC be terminated if the Administrator determines the public agency has failed to comply with those sections of the United States Code or with the implementing regulations published under the Code.

\[Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-2, 65 FR 34543, May 30, 2000; Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28851, May 23, 2007\]

</div>