# Subchapter G. Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire: certification and operations

- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0110 General requirements|Part 110. General requirements]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0117 Flight and duty limitations and rest requirements  flightcrew members|Part 117. Flight and duty limitations and rest requirements: flightcrew members]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0119 Certification  air carriers and commercial operators|Part 119. Certification: air carriers and commercial operators]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0120 Drug and alcohol testing program|Part 120. Drug and alcohol testing program]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0121 Operating requirements  domestic, flag, and supplemental operations|Part 121. Operating requirements: domestic, flag, and supplemental operations]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0125 Certification and operations  airplanes having a seating capacity of 20 or more passengers or a maximum payload capacity of 6,000 pounds or more; and rules governing persons on board such aircraft|Part 125. Certification and operations: airplanes having a seating capacity of 20 or more passengers or a maximum payload capacity of 6,000 pounds or more; and rules governing persons on board such aircraft]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0129 Operations  foreign air carriers and foreign operators of u.s.-registered aircraft engaged in common carriage|Part 129. Operations: foreign air carriers and foreign operators of u.s.-registered aircraft engaged in common carriage]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0133 Rotorcraft external-load operations|Part 133. Rotorcraft external-load operations]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0135 Operating requirements  commuter and on demand operations and rules governing persons on board such aircraft|Part 135. Operating requirements: commuter and on demand operations and rules governing persons on board such aircraft]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0136 Commercial air tours and national parks air tour management|Part 136. Commercial air tours and national parks air tour management]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0137 Agricultural aircraft operations|Part 137. Agricultural aircraft operations]]
- [[Volume 3/G Air carriers and operators for compensation or hire  certification and operations/0139 Certification of airports|Part 139. Certification of airports]]